on a very fundamental level many people
feel that confidence
is intelligence and that the way to be
more intelligent is to dissimulate
confidence to feign confidence
habits of mind are easily misperceived
as innate character traits what you may
perceive
as self-confidence in me is a
process of constant worrying
but productive worrying being smart
involves worrying it involves worrying
all the time it requires that you're
constantly paying attention
not to things you already know and
understand but to the limits of your
understanding
necessarily and by definition the things
that you are just
barely confident with things you are
curious about things that you haven't
mastered yet things you don't
yet feel confident speaking
the title of this video might seem like
parody
or self-parody but the truth is
when you look around the internet you
see a lot of people
who are asking themselves this question
and who are looking
for answers to questions very much like
this one
but they tend to phrase it in such a way
as to avoid admitting blatantly that
they
feel dumb that they feel
lost that they feel hopeless or that
they
feel that others have an advantage in
life
that they haven't quite sorted out for
themselves
and the truth is all of us have felt
that way unless you're an amnesiac
unless you can't remember your childhood
due to years of alcoholism or something
all of us have gone through sometimes
years
and sometimes decades of feeling that
way
and that is the subject of this video
but what i see on the internet is people
yearning for advice simply
and bluntly as to how they can be more
intelligent or how they can live their
lives
more intelligently and what they end up
with
is this sort of self-help motivational
advice
it's really antithetical to their
purposes
there's another youtuber who was
speaking really passionately
about this apothogen he'd managed to get
from a
self-help manual that told him oh uh
you know your problem isn't that you
need to be
highly motivated to go out and
accomplish great things
you just have to get out there and start
accomplishing great things in order to
feel
highly motivated now whether or not this
is good or bad advice
what is the ideological function for the
reader
for the believer in reading this and
getting excited about it
on a very fundamental level many people
feel that confidence is
intelligence and that the way to be more
intelligent is to dissimulate
confidence to feign confidence and this
is in fact
stupidity and it is the road
to remaining ignorant to
inculcating and defending your stupidity
it's true that for example in a movie
we associate a certain kind of
confidence
with an intelligent actor or an actor
playing the role
of a brilliant scientist confidence
looking from the outside in is how we
perceive someone
who already knows what they're doing
but that's not what intelligence is
that's not the way to become smart
that's not the way to learn or gain
that same competence that might lead you
to feel
confident in one scenario or another
being smart involves worrying
it involves worrying all the time
it requires that you're constantly
paying attention
not to things you already know and
understand but to the limits
of your understanding necessarily and by
definition
the things that you are just barely
confident things you are curious about
things that you haven't mastered yet
things you don't yet
feel confident speaking on i saw another
youtuber
who's quite notorious for being stupid
just today
sargon of akkad if you agree with him
politically
fine if you hate him and despise him
politically fine but he's stupid
like if you agree with him that has
nothing to do with whether he is
intelligent or stupid
there was this wonderful demonstration
of both why and how he's stupid
and of what stupidity really means in
practice
where he he had this sort of uh
spontaneous
unscripted stream of consciousness
political rant
and at first he's ranting about things
he's been reading on twitter
lately specifically things written by
socialists and left-wing people whom
he's
criticizing and of course in that he
knows what he's talking about because
he's actually read these things on
twitter's response
and then he moves on to criticizing a
few other youtubers
and these other youtubers are actually
people he knows personally and he's
watched their videos so you know
in a sense he knows what he's conversing
he's confident he's exuding
this you know boisterous confidence that
his audience responds to and they like
about it
and then you know he took a next step
and he started talking about what
happened in the french revolution
like circa 1789 to 1794.
he hasn't even read the wikipedia
article
on the french revolution he doesn't know
what he's talking about at all
but he maintains this momentum this
confidence
he's not even aware that he's taking a
step
from something he can and should be
confident or at least relax speaking
about
into another province where he should
worry he should be worried
now being worried doesn't mean you have
to
act worried you can say to someone
in a completely self-confident way
i don't know you can say to someone a
self-confident way
i wish i knew more about that you know
i'd like to take the time and do
something
i don't know there's nothing wrong
there's nothing more there's nothing
weak about that
you can seem strong and self-confident
while saying to someone
this is the limit of my knowledge this
is what i've read
this is what i know this is what i don't
know
all right intelligent people
are those who are constantly aware of
these
fences if you like at the limits of
their knowledge
and who are always worried about them
they're people who are aware of when
they take that step
from their own area of competence to
incompetence
and this doesn't mean they're people who
are afraid
to take that step right on the contrary
i think if you're an intelligent person
you worry about the limits of your
knowledge productively
you worry about what it is you don't
know you get curious
about what it is you don't know and then
you have investigated to some extent and
then you know it
right you can't research absolutely
everything under the sun
right but in this way you start
living your life intelligently and thus
therefore you become
a smart person with time with effort
all right habits of mind are easily
misperceived as innate character traits
nothing you're seeing about me right now
wasn't it
i i fashioned myself into the man
that i now am there was a time when i
spent
my youth sitting on the carpet playing
sega master system playing video games
i watched the same terrible tv shows
everyone else
in my generation watched i had a
terrible formal education i grew up with
all the same disadvantages
as pretty much everyone else in my
society and how did i warm my way out of
that
i was dissatisfied i was rapacious
i wanted more right and when i look back
at my life
i only wish that i had wanted more
sooner and earlier and that i hadn't
accepted compromises and excuses
right i accepted at a very young age
that i would never read aristotle
why i could make a separate video
reflecting on that that there were some
things that were unknowable or too hard
for me to read it's not true
of course i could have read aristotle
you know i would have helped if i had
parents who encouraged me or something
you know would have helped
if you have a tutor or at something
right i
accepted an early age that i could never
learn latin and i could never learn
greek
i went on later in life to learn
languages that are much
much more difficult than latin and creek
and i'm learning much more difficult
language now
uh i wouldn't call this discouragement
i wouldn't even say that it was that i
felt stupid it's that i thought these
things were
impossible and unknowable and
untouchable for me
other things weren't so what a lot of
you don't know this but when i was a
young young man
i was very interested in theoretical
physics
i read books about you know research
into how gravity works and how
dark matter works and the formation of
star systems
i did that and i was thinking about
making that my career and i decided
against it for various reasons
you know just that didn't seem
intimidating to me to read about physics
but some things seemed impossible to me
and i didn't i didn't question them
i didn't i didn't get motivated in the
way that i'm
motivated now just to mention i mean
research we're doing
right now in this apartment includes the
history of
central asia places like tajikistan and
uzbekistan
is it easier or more difficult to learn
the history of
athens or to learn the history of
tajikistan and uzbekistan this is not
the most difficult research
and this is you know casually at all
times
i'm expanding my knowledge of the world
and i'm
challenging my own ignorance i'm aware
of the limits of my knowledge
some of that some of these things i'm
aware of for years before i can get
around
for years and years and years i had
already done research on the
french revolution and i had never done
research on the
english civil war it could be called the
english revolution that came before it
and i knew
there was an important dynamic
relationship between them i knew i had
to get around it sooner or later
and a couple years ago with my with my
girlfriend i did that research so
what am i describing here what you may
perceive
as self-confidence in me is a
process of constant worrying
but productive worrying not
worrying for the sake of worrying but
worrying so that i'm aware of the limits
of my knowledge
so that i'm aware of my own ignorance
and so that i'm
challenging my own ignorance but i would
never do
what sargon of akkad did in striding
over that boundary for your
you're commenting on twitter you're
commenting on youtube and then you're
company of the french revolution
and you don't you're not oh hey i'm now
talking about something i haven't read
something i
i don't really know for myself
this business of confusing
confidence for intelligence i think
also is at the root of what people reach
out for
and what they end up grasping onto in
self-help books
just think of this you know marvelous
grand
useless piece of wisdom that the other
youtuber got so inspired by
you know oh it's you don't need to be
motivated to accomplish great things
you need to get out and start
accomplishing things so that you can
you can feel one of it
why do people seek out these kinds of
catchphrases and what is their real
function
it's a very strange sort of reassurance
it's reassuring you that there's
nothing here you need to worry about
that there isn't something you don't
know that's going to make you incapable
of achieving your objectives and aims
and real wisdom
involves precisely that gnawing doubt
being with you at all times not to live
your life
despite doubt but to live your life
with doubt informed by doubt let
doubt sharpen your senses at all times
let your awareness of the limits of your
own experience and expertise
you know wet your appetite for learning
and don't cling on to these catch
phrases that
are in the parlance of our times thought
terminating
cliches